GITHUB_PUBLISHING_GUIDE.md, before:

# Publishing Enhanced Meshtastic Dashboard to GitHub - Beginner's Guide

## 📋 Prerequisites
- GitHub account (free at github.com)
- Git installed on your Windows machine
- Your Enhanced Meshtastic Dashboard project

## 🚀 Step 1: Prepare Your Project

### Clean Up the Project
```bash
# Navigate to your project directory
cd "C:\Users\brian\MeshtasticScripts\MultiNode\Enhanced"

# Remove unnecessary files (add these to .gitignore)
# - __pycache__ folders
# - *.pyc files  
# - Personal config files with passwords
# - Log files
# - Test data files
```

### Create Essential Files

#### 1. Create `.gitignore` file:
```gitignore
# Python
__pycache__/
*.py[cod]
*$py.class
*.so
.Python
env/
venv/
ENV/

# Project specific
logs/
*.log
latest_data.json
config/app_config.json
config/node_alert_settings.json

# Personal/sensitive files
*password*
*secret*
*.key

# OS files
.DS_Store
Thumbs.db
```

#### 2. Create `requirements.txt`:
```txt
# Core dependencies
meshtastic>=2.3.0
pubsub>=0.1.2

# GUI dependencies  
tkinter  # Usually included with Python

# Optional for better experience
matplotlib>=3.5.0  # For plotting (if used)
```

#### 3. Update `README.md`:
```markdown
# Enhanced Meshtastic Multi-Node Dashboard

A comprehensive Python-based monitoring system for Meshtastic mesh networks with real-time dashboard, telemetry plotting, and alert capabilities.

## 🌟 Features

- **Real-time Multi-Node Monitoring** - Track multiple Meshtastic nodes simultaneously
- **Intelligent Voltage Display** - Handles both main voltage and Ch3 voltage readings
- **Per-Node Alert Configuration** - Customize alert settings for each node individually
- **Dark Theme Interface** - Easy on the eyes for 24/7 monitoring
- **Comprehensive Logging** - CSV data logging with daily rotation
- **Email Alerts** - Configurable notifications for offline nodes and critical readings
- **Professional Dashboard** - Designed for CERT ICP telemetry monitoring

## 📱 Raspberry Pi Ready

Designed to run on Raspberry Pi with small monitors for distributed mesh network monitoring stations.

## 🛠️ Installation

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.8 or higher
- Meshtastic node (USB/Bluetooth/WiFi connected)
- Small monitor (for Pi installations)

### Quick Start
```bash
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/enhanced-meshtastic-dashboard.git
cd enhanced-meshtastic-dashboard
pip install -r requirements.txt
cp config/app_config_template.json config/app_config.json
# Edit config/app_config.json with your settings
python run_monitor.py
```

### Configuration
1. Copy `config/app_config_template.json` to `config/app_config.json`
2. Update connection settings for your Meshtastic interface
3. Configure email settings for alerts (optional)
4. Run and enjoy!

## 🔧 Raspberry Pi Setup

### Hardware Requirements
- Raspberry Pi 3B+ or newer
- MicroSD card (16GB+)
- Small HDMI monitor (7" recommended)
- Meshtastic node with USB/Bluetooth

### Software Setup
```bash
# Update Pi
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade -y

# Install Python dependencies
sudo apt install python3-pip python3-tkinter -y

# Clone and setup
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/enhanced-meshtastic-dashboard.git
cd enhanced-meshtastic-dashboard
pip3 install -r requirements.txt

# Auto-start on boot (optional)
sudo nano /etc/systemd/system/meshtastic-dashboard.service
```

## 📊 Usage

### Basic Operation
- Run `python run_monitor.py` to start the dashboard
- Click "Node Alerts" to configure per-node alert settings
- Use "Settings" to modify connection and display options
- View plots with the "Plot" button

### Alert Configuration
The dashboard includes intelligent per-node alert configuration:
- **Voltage Alerts**: Automatically detects Ch3 voltage vs main voltage
- **Temperature Monitoring**: Configurable thresholds per node
- **Offline Detection**: Customizable timeout periods
- **Smart Warnings**: Distinguishes between offline nodes and missing sensors

## 🎯 Designed For

- **CERT Teams**: Emergency communication monitoring
- **Mesh Network Operators**: Multi-node oversight
- **Remote Monitoring**: Raspberry Pi deployment ready
- **24/7 Operations**: Dark theme and reliable operation

## 📝 License

MIT License - See LICENSE file for details

## 🤝 Contributing

Issues and pull requests welcome!

## 📧 Contact

Created for CERT ICP telemetry monitoring operations.
```

## 🚀 Step 2: Create GitHub Repository

### Online Method (Easiest for Beginners):
1. Go to **github.com** and sign in
2. Click **"New repository"** (green button)
3. Repository name: `enhanced-meshtastic-dashboard`
4. Description: `CERT ICP Telemetry Dashboard - Multi-node Meshtastic monitoring for Raspberry Pi`
5. Make it **Public** (so you can clone it on Pi)
6. ✅ Check **"Add a README file"**
7. Choose **MIT License**
8. Click **"Create repository"**

## 🔧 Step 3: Upload Your Code

### Method 1: GitHub Web Interface (Easiest)
1. In your new repository, click **"uploading an existing file"**
2. Drag and drop your Enhanced folder contents
3. Add commit message: `Initial release - CERT ICP Dashboard`
4. Click **"Commit changes"**

### Method 2: Git Command Line
```bash
# Initialize git in your project
cd "C:\Users\brian\MeshtasticScripts\MultiNode\Enhanced"
git init

# Add remote repository
git remote add origin https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/enhanced-meshtastic-dashboard.git

# Add all files (respecting .gitignore)
git add .

# Commit
git commit -m "Initial release - Enhanced Meshtastic Dashboard for CERT ICP"

# Push to GitHub
git push -u origin main
```

## 🍓 Step 4: Raspberry Pi Installation Guide

### Create Installation Script
Create `install_pi.sh`:
```bash
#!/bin/bash
echo "🍓 Installing Enhanced Meshtastic Dashboard on Raspberry Pi"

# Update system
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade -y

# Install dependencies
sudo apt install python3-pip python3-tkinter git -y

# Clone repository
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/enhanced-meshtastic-dashboard.git
cd enhanced-meshtastic-dashboard

# Install Python packages
pip3 install -r requirements.txt

# Create config from template
cp config/app_config_template.json config/app_config.json

echo "✅ Installation complete!"
echo "📝 Edit config/app_config.json with your settings"
echo "🚀 Run with: python3 run_monitor.py"
```

### Auto-Start Service (Optional)
Create systemd service file for auto-start on boot:
```ini
[Unit]
Description=CERT ICP Meshtastic Dashboard
After=network.target

[Service]
Type=simple
User=pi
WorkingDirectory=/home/pi/enhanced-meshtastic-dashboard
ExecStart=/usr/bin/python3 run_monitor.py
Restart=always
Environment=DISPLAY=:0

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

## 📱 Step 5: Pi Hardware Setup

### Recommended Hardware:
- **Raspberry Pi 4B (4GB)** - Best performance
- **7" HDMI Display** - Perfect size for telemetry
- **16GB+ MicroSD** - Fast Class 10
- **Meshtastic Node** - T-Beam, Heltec, etc.

### Connections:
- **USB**: Direct USB connection to Meshtastic node
- **Bluetooth**: Pair with Meshtastic device
- **WiFi**: Connect to Meshtastic WiFi AP

## 🎯 Deployment Strategy

### Multiple Pi Stations:
1. **Base Station**: Main monitoring location
2. **Remote Stations**: Strategic monitoring points
3. **Mobile Units**: Vehicle-mounted for field ops
4. **Backup Stations**: Redundant monitoring

Each Pi runs independently, monitoring the same mesh network from different connection points.

## 🔒 Security Notes

### Before Publishing:
- ✅ Remove passwords from config files
- ✅ Use config templates instead of real configs
- ✅ Add sensitive files to .gitignore
- ✅ Review code for any personal information

### For Pi Deployment:
- Change default Pi passwords
- Use SSH keys instead of passwords
- Configure firewall if needed
- Regular updates

## 📚 GitHub Beginner Tips

### Repository Management:
- **Issues**: Track bugs and feature requests
- **Releases**: Create tagged versions for stable releases  
- **Wiki**: Additional documentation
- **Actions**: Automated testing (advanced)

### Collaboration:
- **Fork**: Others can copy your project
- **Pull Requests**: Accept contributions
- **Stars**: Track popularity
- **Watchers**: Get notifications

## 🎉 Next Steps

1. **Publish to GitHub** following steps above
2. **Test on a Pi** to ensure it works
3. **Create release versions** for stable deployments
4. **Document Pi-specific setup** based on testing
5. **Share with CERT community**

Your dashboard will be perfect for distributed mesh monitoring - each Pi becomes an independent monitoring station that can track the entire network from its connection point!

Commit message:

Remove personal directory path from publishing guide

GITHUB_PUBLISHING_GUIDE.md, after:

# Publishing Enhanced Meshtastic Dashboard to GitHub - Beginner's Guide

## 📋 Prerequisites
- GitHub account (free at github.com)
- Git installed on your Windows machine
- Your Enhanced Meshtastic Dashboard project

## 🚀 Step 1: Prepare Your Project

### Clean Up the Project
```bash
# Navigate to your project directory
cd "path\to\your\project"

# Remove unnecessary files (add these to .gitignore)
# - __pycache__ folders
# - *.pyc files  
# - Personal config files with passwords
# - Log files
# - Test data files
```

### Create Essential Files

#### 1. Create `.gitignore` file:
```gitignore
# Python
__pycache__/
*.py[cod]
*$py.class
*.so
.Python
env/
venv/
ENV/

# Project specific
logs/
*.log
latest_data.json
config/app_config.json
config/node_alert_settings.json

# Personal/sensitive files
*password*
*secret*
*.key

# OS files
.DS_Store
Thumbs.db
```

#### 2. Create `requirements.txt`:
```txt
# Core dependencies
meshtastic>=2.3.0
pubsub>=0.1.2

# GUI dependencies  
tkinter  # Usually included with Python

# Optional for better experience
matplotlib>=3.5.0  # For plotting (if used)
```

#### 3. Update `README.md`:
```markdown
# Enhanced Meshtastic Multi-Node Dashboard

A comprehensive Python-based monitoring system for Meshtastic mesh networks with real-time dashboard, telemetry plotting, and alert capabilities.

## 🌟 Features

- **Real-time Multi-Node Monitoring** - Track multiple Meshtastic nodes simultaneously
- **Intelligent Voltage Display** - Handles both main voltage and Ch3 voltage readings
- **Per-Node Alert Configuration** - Customize alert settings for each node individually
- **Dark Theme Interface** - Easy on the eyes for 24/7 monitoring
- **Comprehensive Logging** - CSV data logging with daily rotation
- **Email Alerts** - Configurable notifications for offline nodes and critical readings
- **Professional Dashboard** - Designed for CERT ICP telemetry monitoring

## 📱 Raspberry Pi Ready

Designed to run on Raspberry Pi with small monitors for distributed mesh network monitoring stations.

## 🛠️ Installation

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.8 or higher
- Meshtastic node (USB/Bluetooth/WiFi connected)
- Small monitor (for Pi installations)

### Quick Start
```bash
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/enhanced-meshtastic-dashboard.git
cd enhanced-meshtastic-dashboard
pip install -r requirements.txt
cp config/app_config_template.json config/app_config.json
# Edit config/app_config.json with your settings
python run_monitor.py
```

### Configuration
1. Copy `config/app_config_template.json` to `config/app_config.json`
2. Update connection settings for your Meshtastic interface
3. Configure email settings for alerts (optional)
4. Run and enjoy!

## 🔧 Raspberry Pi Setup

### Hardware Requirements
- Raspberry Pi 3B+ or newer
- MicroSD card (16GB+)
- Small HDMI monitor (7" recommended)
- Meshtastic node with USB/Bluetooth

### Software Setup
```bash
# Update Pi
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade -y

# Install Python dependencies
sudo apt install python3-pip python3-tkinter -y

# Clone and setup
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/enhanced-meshtastic-dashboard.git
cd enhanced-meshtastic-dashboard
pip3 install -r requirements.txt

# Auto-start on boot (optional)
sudo nano /etc/systemd/system/meshtastic-dashboard.service
```

## 📊 Usage

### Basic Operation
- Run `python run_monitor.py` to start the dashboard
- Click "Node Alerts" to configure per-node alert settings
- Use "Settings" to modify connection and display options
- View plots with the "Plot" button

### Alert Configuration
The dashboard includes intelligent per-node alert configuration:
- **Voltage Alerts**: Automatically detects Ch3 voltage vs main voltage
- **Temperature Monitoring**: Configurable thresholds per node
- **Offline Detection**: Customizable timeout periods
- **Smart Warnings**: Distinguishes between offline nodes and missing sensors

## 🎯 Designed For

- **CERT Teams**: Emergency communication monitoring
- **Mesh Network Operators**: Multi-node oversight
- **Remote Monitoring**: Raspberry Pi deployment ready
- **24/7 Operations**: Dark theme and reliable operation

## 📝 License

MIT License - See LICENSE file for details

## 🤝 Contributing

Issues and pull requests welcome!

## 📧 Contact

Created for CERT ICP telemetry monitoring operations.
```

## 🚀 Step 2: Create GitHub Repository

### Online Method (Easiest for Beginners):
1. Go to **github.com** and sign in
2. Click **"New repository"** (green button)
3. Repository name: `enhanced-meshtastic-dashboard`
4. Description: `CERT ICP Telemetry Dashboard - Multi-node Meshtastic monitoring for Raspberry Pi`
5. Make it **Public** (so you can clone it on Pi)
6. ✅ Check **"Add a README file"**
7. Choose **MIT License**
8. Click **"Create repository"**

## 🔧 Step 3: Upload Your Code

### Method 1: GitHub Web Interface (Easiest)
1. In your new repository, click **"uploading an existing file"**
2. Drag and drop your Enhanced folder contents
3. Add commit message: `Initial release - CERT ICP Dashboard`
4. Click **"Commit changes"**

### Method 2: Git Command Line
```bash
# Initialize git in your project
cd "path\to\your\project"
git init

# Add remote repository
git remote add origin https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/enhanced-meshtastic-dashboard.git

# Add all files (respecting .gitignore)
git add .

# Commit
git commit -m "Initial release - Enhanced Meshtastic Dashboard for CERT ICP"

# Push to GitHub
git push -u origin main
```

## 🍓 Step 4: Raspberry Pi Installation Guide

### Create Installation Script
Create `install_pi.sh`:
```bash
#!/bin/bash
echo "🍓 Installing Enhanced Meshtastic Dashboard on Raspberry Pi"

# Update system
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade -y

# Install dependencies
sudo apt install python3-pip python3-tkinter git -y

# Clone repository
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/enhanced-meshtastic-dashboard.git
cd enhanced-meshtastic-dashboard

# Install Python packages
pip3 install -r requirements.txt

# Create config from template
cp config/app_config_template.json config/app_config.json

echo "✅ Installation complete!"
echo "📝 Edit config/app_config.json with your settings"
echo "🚀 Run with: python3 run_monitor.py"
```

### Auto-Start Service (Optional)
Create systemd service file for auto-start on boot:
```ini
[Unit]
Description=CERT ICP Meshtastic Dashboard
After=network.target

[Service]
Type=simple
User=pi
WorkingDirectory=/home/pi/enhanced-meshtastic-dashboard
ExecStart=/usr/bin/python3 run_monitor.py
Restart=always
Environment=DISPLAY=:0

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

## 📱 Step 5: Pi Hardware Setup

### Recommended Hardware:
- **Raspberry Pi 4B (4GB)** - Best performance
- **7" HDMI Display** - Perfect size for telemetry
- **16GB+ MicroSD** - Fast Class 10
- **Meshtastic Node** - T-Beam, Heltec, etc.

### Connections:
- **USB**: Direct USB connection to Meshtastic node
- **Bluetooth**: Pair with Meshtastic device
- **WiFi**: Connect to Meshtastic WiFi AP

## 🎯 Deployment Strategy

### Multiple Pi Stations:
1. **Base Station**: Main monitoring location
2. **Remote Stations**: Strategic monitoring points
3. **Mobile Units**: Vehicle-mounted for field ops
4. **Backup Stations**: Redundant monitoring

Each Pi runs independently, monitoring the same mesh network from different connection points.

## 🔒 Security Notes

### Before Publishing:
- ✅ Remove passwords from config files
- ✅ Use config templates instead of real configs
- ✅ Add sensitive files to .gitignore
- ✅ Review code for any personal information

### For Pi Deployment:
- Change default Pi passwords
- Use SSH keys instead of passwords
- Configure firewall if needed
- Regular updates

## 📚 GitHub Beginner Tips

### Repository Management:
- **Issues**: Track bugs and feature requests
- **Releases**: Create tagged versions for stable releases  
- **Wiki**: Additional documentation
- **Actions**: Automated testing (advanced)

### Collaboration:
- **Fork**: Others can copy your project
- **Pull Requests**: Accept contributions
- **Stars**: Track popularity
- **Watchers**: Get notifications

## 🎉 Next Steps

1. **Publish to GitHub** following steps above
2. **Test on a Pi** to ensure it works
3. **Create release versions** for stable deployments
4. **Document Pi-specific setup** based on testing
5. **Share with CERT community**

Your dashboard will be perfect for distributed mesh monitoring - each Pi becomes an independent monitoring station that can track the entire network from its connection point!
